>> Zac Gordon: We went through this app.
This is pretty simple.
Now, it's probably worth taking a moment
to talk about is this a good idea right?
Just because we can do something,
doesn't mean that we necessarily should.
So what are the pro's and
con's of building an app like this?
Well one of the pro's is,
that if you have someone login,
like let's say that we have
a login on the front end.
Cuz it doesn't make much sense if you were
log out of WordPress to log into the back
end where you see all those options and
then coming to the front end, right?
But if you can have a log in here,
somebody just posting really simply.
They can do it right there, it's pretty
clean, they number after see the back end.
They never even have to
know it's WordPress, right?
So, that's pretty great.
On the other hand,
how do we add categories?
How do we add a featured image?
How do we do the excerpt?
All of these things are not included,
so to get to that next level,
you would have to code way more.
Like the amount that we did is this much
but the amount to get to everywhere.
So, this is where a trade off I wanna
suggest is, is that if it's a simple
kind of quick thing or for
that particular client or used case.
You're like yeah but
just hide the whole thing,
let's make it this clean as possible.
But, if you want to rebuild the entire
admin area and all the functionality,
this is a bad idea and
we'll take you way longer than you think.
Hashtag Calypso has teams of
full time developers, and
they still haven't even
finish all the features.
And I have heard this, I haven't seen this
statistics but a good portion of people
who run large sites on WordPress.com,
still opens the traditional editor to do
certain things that aren't fully flash
out in the full react version of it.
But all that said, I think one of
the best places and biggest wins for
doing something like this
that we've looked at is,
let's say this was a portfolio page,
right?
And you had a nice your portfolio pieces
and you click on one and you don't
need to load a new page, it just pops it
open right there, it's all nice and clean.
One of the problems you're
gonna get to though,
if you try to build an entire single
page web app with posts and pages and
URL structures all running in JavaScript,
you get into some issues because
you need to have fallbacks for PHP.
So let's say for
example that when I click on this link it
puts a hashtag up here and
then that URL structure, right?
Well then we need to write some extra
bit of code, some basic routing code,
to figure out what URL we're on and
pull it in to the page.
The other thing is,
is that WordPress already has a page and
a template for this.
So what a lot of folks who are doing, who
are building real rich themes that work
well, they still have some PHP on the back
end to handle potentially if something
doesn't go through or
if the JavaScript isn't there.
But then they're building their whole
JavaScript app on top of the full theme,
right?
So the problem again is is if you get
into different URL structures and
somehow JavaScript isn't loading,
you want some fallback.
The JavaScript space, and
I think Frontend Masters is possibly mixed
on this depending on the application.
But a lot of folks are saying now,
we don't need fallbacks.
You know, try to run Facebook or
your mail or
Major applications without JavaScript,
and it's probably not happening.
So you need to make that decision of if
it makes sense and how possible is it.
And then when you get into
routing on top of WordPress,
you will eventually hit some weird issue.
So I just wanna share that and
point that out.
So all this is to say that you can do
a ton with the WordPress rest API.
And I just wanna point
out a few examples here
that,
>> Zac Gordon: We're not going to go
through, but I just want to show you that
they are here for your reference, okay?
So, if we come into section five,
we stopped at deleting posts.
So I'm not going to go through
all the code with you all here.
It looks like most people
got pretty far along and
at this point you understand
how these examples work.
So the next thing is the axio stemo.
So if you wanted to not use
the backbone client, and
one of the examples we never did,
notice there's no 5.3, right?
5.3 was suppose to be getting custom and
points of the backbone clients.
It's great for
having post pages everything, but
what if we had our simple post.
You need to do some extra code that
I wasn't able quite work out in order
to this backbone with customs stuff.
So, the case where you might want
to use axious is if you're running,
all custom stuff.
And you don't really want to have to
worry about the backbone client or
customizing it or extending it.
Or maybe you already had JavaScript
that was written or your agency or
your group is already working with
a certain framework or certain tools.
This is, the axious demo is
the exact same thing you just built.
But it's using a different client,
it's just using regular ajax calls
instead of the backbone client.
So at some point, if your gonna take this
further, go through this example and
look at how this works,
because it will help you make sense of it.
The second thing, and
we could've started our day with this,
is that notice that when we save our code,
we have to go back to WordPress and
refresh the browser every time, right?
How many of you have worked
before with some sort of watch or
refresh tool that will
automatically refresh your code?
Are you familiar with that?
Amazing, right?
It so, much simply you save it,
pop it open and it's good.
You can do that, so
this demo here what this
shows you is this a normal theme but
it has inside of my JS folder,
a webpack configuration.
So in this webpack configuration,
we're doing a few things
that I just wanna point out.
We're pulling in BrowserSync, and
what BrowserSync does is watch your code
in hard and refresh your browser itself.
And if you're running
the webpack developer tool,
which will look at for
a couple of example,
that operates in the completely different
space then your WordPress site.
So the way we traditionally
built JavaScript apps and
work with the built tools,
will not work in WordPress.
We have to add this other layer that will
automatically refresh our WordPress site
itself.
So the thing in here
are down at the bottom.
I wanna point out this code here.
So my site URL is at vagrant.local.
So you would change this to js
whatever .dev that you have.
And then local host,
you can change it to something else, and
you can change the port,
something that you're not using.
So what happens when you run
this is instead of viewing
your site at vagrant.local,
you would go to localhost; 3333 and
that would proxy your entire site and
control the refreshes.
So that's how it takes control
of everything for you.
If you're going to develop heavy
JavaScript stuff inside of WordPress.
You all grab this webpack
config tweak it for yours and
then it will just save you
all that time of refreshing.
I didn't do that with what we were doing
just because it's one more thing to add
and we've been covering a lot,
but that is there for you.
So I would definitely
suggest check in that out.
And the very last thing is, everybody
wants to know how to do a framework right?
Wait how do we do this in React?
How do we plug Angular and
how do we plug View-in.
It all works the same way.
You basically build whatever it is.
You enqueue the files that you need and
it works.
So this is a very, very simple theme.
It's the exact same thing
we've been doing before.
And what it's gonna do is
basically just list out.
>> Zac Gordon: The ability to show a bunch
of posts, or show a single post, and
the actual template code is in the php.
So notice how I have some view code,
hard coded right here.
Now is this the best approach?
Maybe, it's okay,
if you are doing something like this,
I would highly suggest
leveraging view cloak.
V-cloak, if you look into this,
because all this code is gonna get
executed immediately and
be on the page before JavaScript kicks in.
So v-cloak will let you hide it.
There are other ways to do that.
But if you get deeper into View or
React, or some of these other ones,
you're building all your
templates with JavaScript.
And then you're importing
them into the page.
So that's kind of the next level, but when
you're first starting off with View or
something, it's simpler
to take this approach.
So if you're curious about how this works
and how you make the API requests with
something like View,
>> Zac Gordon: Take a look at this code
for a second and see if that makes sense.
>> Zac Gordon: So
what that is saying is get
>> Zac Gordon: The site URL, and
you can see that we put this out by
using the localized scripts, right?
So that's how we get our site URL, and
then we're getting this site URL or
this restEnd point.
Sorry, restEnd point is here.
It's computed because you want
to take your site URL and
then add some things on to it.
So if you had different Endpoints,
you could set them up that way, so
we're grabbing our restEndpoint.
And then, when we get it back, we're
sending this post equal to the new data.
And this post up here,
will refer to this, our array of posts.
So it's just gonna get the posts and
load them on the page.
Really simple stuff, and again this
just shows and why I was emphasizing
taking a look, not just at jQuery, but
something like axios or some of the more
popular HTTP libraries, is that this is
the only component that is different.
You could build your whole reactor,
your viewer, your angular backbone app.
All you have to do is get those ajax calls
right, and then load it into the page.
So that should be something
that you explore later.
How many of you have played around
with some sort of framework?
Okay, so a good practice might be,
if you wanted to play around with it,
just try to list five posts.
And then when you click on
a post show that specific post,
something like that, okay?
And you can use this as a reference.
And again, this is really the only
code that's gonna change, and
then it just plugs in,
that's going to stay the same, and
the rest just plugs into your framework.
So that's an example there for you, we
won't really go into it further, but when
you get there and you're ready for it,
it'll make a lot of sense and be helpful.